# Data Dictionary for Mapping Data Flows Datasets

This file contains the data dictionary for the data files behind the [mappingdataflows](https://mappingdataflows.com/) visualization. This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).

## Nodes.csv

This file contains the node data for the visualization. Each row represents a node. The fields are as follows:

* `NAME`: name of the node
* `CATEGORY`: type of node (`DATASOURCE`, `TYPE OF DATA`, or `PURPOSE`)
* `SUBCATEGORY`: within each category, what class of `TYPE OF DATA` or `PURPOSE` it is. Note that `DATASOURCE` doesn't have subcategories.
* `ORDER`: the order in which the nodes are drawn in the visualization.
* `INCLUDES`: what specific data types or purposes this node includes. Note that `DATASOURCE` doesn't include anything else.

## Generates.csv

This file contains the connections between `DATASOURCE` and `TYPE OF DATA`. Each row represents a type of data that was generated from a particular source. Note almost all `TYPE OF DATA` are generated by multiple `DATASOURCE`. The fields are as follows:

* `DATASOURCE`: name of data source (refers back to the `Nodes.csv` file).
* `DATATYPE`: name of data type (refers back to the `Nodes.csv` file).
* `HOW`: how this `TYPE OF DATA` was generated (values include `HARVESTED`, `USER PROVIDED`, and `FROM THIRD PARTIES`).

## CollectsUsesShares.csv

This file contains the connections between `TYPE OF DATA` and `PURPOSE`. Each row represents a type of data that is collected by Amazon, Apple, Facebook, or Google, and the purpose of this collection. Note that almost all `TYPE OF DATA` are collected for multiple `PURPOSE`. The fields are the following:

* `DATATYPE`: name of data type (refers back to the `Nodes.csv` file).
* `DATATYPESUBCATEGORY`: subcategory for the data type (refers back to the `Nodes.csv` file).
* `PURPOSE`: name of the purpose (refers back to the `Nodes.csv` file).
* `PURPOSESUBCATEGORY`: subcategory for the purpose node (refers back to the `Nodes.csv` file).
* `APPLECONCRETETEXT`: direct quote from Apple's terms of service from where we derived this connection.
* `FACEBOOKCONCRETETEXT`: direct quote from Facebook's terms of service from where we derived this connection.
* `AMAZONCONCRETETEXT`: direct quote from Amazon's terms of service from where we derived this connection.
* `GOOGLECONCRETETEXT`: direct quote from Google's terms of service from where we derived this connection.
* `USERCONTROLFACEBOOK`: whether a Facebook user can disable the collection of this data by the company through adjustments in the user's privacy settings.
* `COMPANIES`: the companies that collect this type of data for this specific purpose (values include: `AMAZON`, `APPLE`, `FACEBOOK`, and `GOOGLE`).

### Note

In time, these files will be revised and expanded, and this codebook will be modified to reflect those changes. For more information email Juan Francisco Saldarriaga (jfs2118@columbia.edu).
