# Data Dictionary for Mapping Data Flows Datasets

This file contains the data dictionary for the data files behind the [Mapping Data Flows - Google's Archive](https://mappingdataflows.com/google_history/) visualization. This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).

## nodes.csv

This file contains the node data for the visualization. Each row represents a node. The fields are as follows:

* `NAME`: name of the node
* `CATEGORY`: type of node (`DATASOURCE`, `TYPE OF DATA`, or `PURPOSE`)
* `SUBCATEGORY`: within each category, what class of `TYPE OF DATA` or `PURPOSE` it is. Note that `DATASOURCE` doesn't have subcategories.
* `ORDER`: the order in which the nodes are drawn in the visualization.
* `INCLUDES`: what specific data types or purposes this node includes. Note that `DATASOURCE` doesn't include anything else.

## generates.csv

This file contains the connections between `DATASOURCE` and `TYPE OF DATA`. Each row represents a type of data that was generated from a particular source. Note almost all `TYPE OF DATA` are generated by multiple `DATASOURCE`. The fields are as follows:

* `DATASOURCE`: name of data source (refers back to the `Nodes.csv` file).
* `DATATYPE`: name of data type (refers back to the `Nodes.csv` file).
* `HOW`: how this `TYPE OF DATA` was generated (values include `HARVESTED`, `USER PROVIDED`, and `FROM THIRD PARTIES`).

## collectsUsesShares.csv

This file contains the connections between `TYPE OF DATA` and `PURPOSE`. Each row represents a type of data that is collected by Amazon, Apple, Facebook, or Google, and the purpose of this collection. Note that almost all `TYPE OF DATA` are collected for multiple `PURPOSE`. The fields are the following:

* `DATATYPE`: name of data type (refers back to the `Nodes.csv` file).
* `DATATYPESUBCATEGORY`: subcategory for the data type (refers back to the `Nodes.csv` file).
* `PURPOSE`: name of the purpose (refers back to the `Nodes.csv` file).
* `PURPOSESUBCATEGORY`: subcategory for the purpose node (refers back to the `Nodes.csv` file).
* `GOOGLE2019`: whether or not this particular connection was present in Google's 2019 terms of service or privacy policies (if true, the cell contains the word `GOOGLE`, otherwise it's left blank).
* `GOOGLE2010`: whether or not this particular connection was present in Google's 2010 terms of service or privacy policies (if true, the cell contains the word `GOOGLE`, otherwise it's left blank).
* `GOOGLE2001`: whether or not this particular connection was present in Google's 2001 terms of service or privacy policies (if true, the cell contains the word `GOOGLE`, otherwise it's left blank).

### Note

In time, these files will be revised and expanded, and this codebook will be modified to reflect those changes. For more information email Juan Francisco Saldarriaga (jfs2118@columbia.edu).
